so we're now going to dig into one of
the most important aspects of being a
gamer which is being lazy so show of
hands who here said who here describes
themselves as lazy so pretty much
everyone right we're all lazy in human
beings are actually designed to be lazy
if we think about it like human beings
aren't gonna do stuff unless they kind
of need to do stuff and that's a common
problem for the human condition but
tends to be a particular problem for
gamers when I talk to gamers and I ask
you guys you know why is it that your
roommate or your friend from high school
is able to do things and you're not able
to do things why are you in the position
that your net you are you're in now they
say because they're lazy and so I think
that that's actually a really dangerous
train of thought even if it's true
because there's nothing you can do about
being lazy like laziness is like a trait
it's like I'm lazy or I'm not lazy some
people are lazy and some people aren't
lazy if you're lazy you're basically
because you can't you can't make
that go away and so the first part of
laziness that we're gonna dig into is
understanding a little bit about
laziness motivation and willpower you
know how these three things fit together
a lot of gamers tell me that their life
would be different if they could be
motivated so I think we're gonna talk a
little bit about how motivation
circuitry within your brain works so the
first thing that recognizes that
willpower and motivation are completely
different things
if you're motivated to do something you
actually don't need willpower to do it
right like let's pause and think about
this for a second so I have an apple
here and this Apple is is hard to eat if
I'm full if I'm already full and I'm not
hungry at all and I want to eat this
Apple I actually have to use willpower
to eat the Apple because I don't feel
like eating the Apple as time goes on
let's say that an hour from now I start
to get a little bit hungry or an hour
from an hour later I start to get a
little bit hungry or eight hours from
now I'm pretty
and then suddenly I don't need willpower
to eat the Apple anymore I'm motivated
to eat the Apple because I'm now hungry
I had this internal biological drive to
do something and I have this Apple in
front of me so I feel hungry my blood
sugar is dropping and I've got this
Apple so it becomes easy to eat even if
I don't like apples I you can imagine
that if I don't like apples and I wait
eight hours it's still gonna require
some willpower for me to eat the apple
if I wait 24 hours it's gonna be I'm
gonna be way more motivated to eat the
Apple because I'm gonna be starving if I
wait 48 hours my motivation to eat the
Apple is gonna be gigantic so the first
thing to understand is that motivation
is not actually willpower motivation is
an internal drive that you sort of don't
have control over your body has these
different circuits in your brain that
create a desire to do something and
that's kind of what we call motivation
the second thing to understand about
motivation is that whether you actually
do something engage in a behavior or not
is not just based on the biological
drive it also has to do with
availability so if I am starving this
Apple is really easy to eat but if I'm
not very hungry I still may eat an apple
if you put it in front of me so our
desire to our ability to actually engage
in a behavior actually depends on the
availability of what's around us so if I
want to eat healthier with a simple
thing that I can actually do is just
keep healthy food around me and make it
easy for me to eat healthy food if I'm a
lazy like I am and I just have
like healthy food laying around there's
a greater chance that I'll eat it
because since I'm lazy I'm not gonna
leave the house to go pick up a
hamburger when there's an apple right
here actually I probably will still do
that but the chances that I eat food
that's healthy is going to be greater if
it's around so the first thing that
we've got to kind of summarize here is
that motivation is a combination of an
internal Drive
and availability and this sort of makes
sense for you guys if you stop and think
about it because one thing that a lot of
gamers tell me is that it's easy for
them to do something if they have an
external pressure to do it it's easy to
study geometry if you have a test on
Friday but it's hard to study geometry
after you've taken the test and so if we
think about that that motivation to
study comes from the environment and
that's kind of like having an apple
available a part of our motivation is
actually based on our environment of
what's available around us and a part of
it is based on our internal drive so
what does that mean for gamers how do
you create motivation well you may not
be able to do a whole lot but we can
talk a little bit about managing the
internal drive but one of the big things
that I tell gamers is that a lot of
motivation is based on your environment
so if you hang out with people who go to
the gym three times a week there's a
much greater chance that you'll actually
go to the gym your motivation will go to
the go to the gym will be increased by
the kind of people that you spend time
with and so one of the biggest things to
understand about your motivation the
first thing to understand is that it's
not willpower and that it's actually
based on a combination of internal
drives and availability or environment
and so if you think about it that way
you can start to problem-solve a little
bit about okay what is it that I want to
do what do I want to change do I want to
go to the gym more do I want to eat
healthier and then you can structure
your environment to sort of prompt you
to move in the direction that you want
to go so for example if you want to eat
healthier go to the grocery store when
you're not starving and buy some healthy
food and keep it at home keep an apple
on your desk next to your PC and then
when you feel a little bit hungry it's
easier to eat the Apple make it easy for
yourself to do the things that you want
to do if for example you want to go out
to lunch try to ask the buddy that
you're going out to lunch with hey why
don't we go to the gym first we'll like
workout from 10:30 to 11:30 and then
grab lunch afterward the more that you
can structure your environment to
support your be
behavior and move you in the direction
that you want to go the better off
you'll be
and the funny thing about that is that
you don't actually need willpower all
you need is to just structure in your
environment in a way that it prompts the
motivation that you want